# Node Description

**Nodes are the key components of a workflow**, enabling the execution of a series of operations by connecting nodes with different functionalities.

### Core Nodes

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="start.md"><strong>Start</strong></a></td><td>Defines the initial parameters for starting a workflow process.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="end.md"><strong>End</strong></a></td><td>Defines the final output content for ending a workflow process.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="answer.md"><strong>Answer</strong></a></td><td>Defines the response content in a Chatflow process.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="llm.md"><strong>Large Language Model (LLM)</strong></a></td><td>Calls a large language model to answer questions or process natural language.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="knowledge_retrieval.md"><strong>Knowledge Retrieval</strong></a></td><td>Retrieves text content related to user questions from a knowledge base, which can serve as context for downstream LLM nodes.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="question-classifier.md"><strong>Question Classifier</strong></a></td><td>By defining classification descriptions, the LLM can select the matching classification based on user input.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="ifelse.md"><strong>IF/ELSE</strong></a></td><td>Allows you to split the workflow into two branches based on if/else conditions.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="code.md"><strong>Code Execution</strong></a></td><td>Runs Python/NodeJS code to execute custom logic such as data transformation within the workflow.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="template.md"><strong>Template</strong></a></td><td>Enables flexible data transformation and text processing using Jinja2, a Python templating language.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="variable-assigner.md"><strong>Variable Aggregator</strong></a></td><td>Aggregates variables from multiple branches into one variable for unified configuration of downstream nodes.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="variable-assignment.md"><strong>Variable Assigner</strong></a></td><td>The variable assigner node is used to assign values to writable variables.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="parameter-extractor.md"><strong>Parameter Extractor</strong></a></td><td>Uses LLM to infer and extract structured parameters from natural language for subsequent tool calls or HTTP requests.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="iteration.md"><strong>Iteration</strong></a></td><td>Executes multiple steps on list objects until all results are output.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="http-request.md"><strong>HTTP Request</strong></a></td><td>Allows sending server requests via the HTTP protocol, suitable for retrieving external results, webhooks, generating images, and other scenarios.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="tools.md"><strong>Tools</strong></a></td><td>Enables calling built-in Dify tools, custom tools, sub-workflows, and more within the workflow.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
