# Stable Diffusion

{% hint style="warning" %}
"Tools" has been fully upgraded to the "Plugins". For more details, please refer to [Install and Use Plugins](https://docs.dify.ai/plugins/quick-start/install-plugins). The content below has been archived.
{% endhint %}

Stable Diffusion is a tool for generating images based on text prompts, Dify has implemented the interface to access the Stable Diffusion WebUI API, so you can use it directly in Dify. followings are steps to integrate Stable Diffusion in Dify.

## 1. Make sure you have a machine with a GPU
Stable Diffusion requires a machine with a GPU to generate images. but it's not necessary, you can just use CPU to generate images, but it will be slow.

## 2. Launch Stable Diffusion WebUI
Launch the Stable Diffusion WebUI on your local machine or server.

### 2.1. Clone the Stable Diffusion WebUI repository
Clone the Stable Diffusion WebUI repository from the [official repository](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)
    
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui
```

### 2.2. Launch it locally
After cloning the repository, you should change directory to the cloned repository and run the following command to launch the Stable Diffusion WebUI.

#### Windows
```bash
cd stable-diffusion-webui
./webui.bat --api --listen
```

#### Linux
```bash
cd stable-diffusion-webui
./webui.sh --api --listen
```

### 2.3. Prepare Models
Now you can access the Stable Diffusion WebUI on your browser according to the address shown in the terminal, but the models are not available yet. You need to download the models HuggingFace or other sources and put them in the `models` directory of the Stable Diffusion WebUI.

For example, we use [pastel-mix](https://huggingface.co/JamesFlare/pastel-mix) as the model, use `git lfs` to download the model and put it in the `models` directory in `stable-diffusion-webui`.

```bash
git clone https://huggingface.co/JamesFlare/pastel-mix
```

### 2.4 Get Model Name
Now you can see `pastel-mix` in the model list, but we still need to get the model name, visit `http://your_id:port/sdapi/v1/sd-models`, you will see the model name like below.

```json
[
    {
        "title": "pastel-mix/pastelmix-better-vae-fp32.ckpt [943a810f75]",
        "model_name": "pastel-mix_pastelmix-better-vae-fp32",
        "hash": "943a810f75",
        "sha256": "943a810f7538b32f9d81dc5adea3792c07219964c8a8734565931fcec90d762d",
        "filename": "/home/takatost/stable-diffusion-webui/models/Stable-diffusion/pastel-mix/pastelmix-better-vae-fp32.ckpt",
        "config": null
    },
]
```

The `model_name` is what we need, in this case, it's `pastel-mix_pastelmix-better-vae-fp32`.

## 3. Integrate Stable Diffusion in Dify
Fill in the Authentication and Model Configuration in `Tools > StableDiffusion > To Authorize` with the information you get from the previous steps.

## 4. Finish

- **Chatflow / Workflow Applications**

Both Chatflow and Workflow applications support adding `Stable Diffusion` tool nodes. After adding, you need to fill in the [variable](https://docs.dify.ai/v/zh-hans/guides/workflow/variables) referencing the user's input prompt or the content generated by the previous node in the "Input Variables → Prompt" section within the node. Finally, use a variable to reference the image output by `Stable Diffusion` in the "End" node.

- **Agent Applications**

Add the `Stable Diffusion` tool in the Agent application, then send image descriptions in the chat box to invoke the tool and generate AI images.
